---
title: Verbs
categories: English
tags: [Grammar, Speech]
---
Verb is one of the eight parts of [speech](https://lxfminions.github.io/english-grammar-notes)

A verb is a word that expresses an action or a state of being.

Main verbs: action verbs and state of being verbs (aka. linking verbs).

**Main** means that the verb is strong enough to be the only verb in the sentence. But there is also a third category of verbs called **helping verbs**, because they *do not stand alone* as main verbs. They refer to voices, moods, and tenses.

Every verb has what are called four principal parts: present, present participle, past, past participle. It used to form many **verb tenses**.


## Types of Verbs

There are three types of verbs: action verbs, linking verbs, and helping verbs.

### Action Verbs

1. **Intransitive complete verbs** don't transfer its action to anyone or anything.
2. **Transitive active verbs** transfer its action to someone or something.
3. **Transitive passive verbs** transfer its action to a receiver.

### Linking Verbs

Linking verbs tell us about the state or condition of the **subject**. They link the subject of a sentence with either a noun that renames the **subject** or an adjective that describes the **subject**.

A noun is called **predicate noun** and an adjective is called **predicate adjective**.

### Helping Verbs

Helping verbs (auxiliary verbs) do just what their name implies. They *help* the main verb in the sentence by telling more about the verb's tense, mood, and voice.

## Verbal

Verbal are words that are formed from verbs but *don't act as verbs*. There are three types.

1. **Gerunds** - end with *-ing* and act like **nouns**.
2. **Participles** - end with *-ing*, *-ed*, *-n*, or *-t* and act as **adjective**.
3. **Infinitives** - `to + verb`, an infinitive is formed from a verb but does not act as a verb. It act as a noun, adjective, or adverb.



## Verb Phrases && Phrasal Verbs

**Phrasal verbs** are two-word or three-word phrases that consist of a verb and one or two words from the **preposition** list. The words work together to perform the job of one verb, and they create a meaning different form the meaning that the words have by themselves.

**Verb phrases** consist of one main verb and one or more helping/auxiliary verbs.

## Verb Tenses

Verb tenses is an attribute of verbs that tell us about time.

Remember that verbs are the words that show actions or states of being.

There are only six tenses for English verbs. Three of them is called **simple tenses** and three of them is called **perfect tenses**.

### Simple Tenses

There are three basic times when verbs can take on: past, present, and future.

1. **Simple present tense** verbs show actions that happen regularly or that are permanently happening.
2. **Simple past tense** verbs show actions that took place in the past.
3. **Simple future tense** verbs show actions that have not taken place yet, but that will take place in the future.

### Perfect Tenses

At any rate, all of these perfect tenses are formed with the **helping verbs** *have, has, had, will and shall* and the past participates of the verb.

1. **Present perfect tense** verbs show actions that were finished recently or ones that were completed at an indefinite time in the past. These use has or have.
2. **Past perfect tense** verbs show actions that came directly before another action in the past.
3. **Future perfect tense** verbs show actions that will happen before other future actions happen. These use will have and shall have.

### Progressive/Continuous Forms

Both simple and perfect verb tenses can also be made into progressive verb forms. Sometimes they are also called continuous. That just means that they show an action that is in progress or that is continuing.

To form this type of verb, you add one of the forms of the verb be with the present participle of the verb.
