---
title: C-Notes
categories: it
tags: [C]
---

{%
include tip.html content="Below contents refer to the only C language and come from the author [Dan Saks](https://dansaks.com/)" 
%}

## lvalue & rvalue
- An **object** is a manipulatable region of storage;
- An **lvalue** is an expression referring to an object.
- Every expression is either an **lvalue** or an **rvalue**. (from C++)
- Although built-in operators may be lvalues, the result is always an **rvalue**.

## Storage class specifier
- **auto** - automatic duration and no linkage 
- **static** - static duration and internal linkage (unless at block scope)
- **extern** - static duration and external linkage (unless already declared internal)
- **register** - automatic duration and no linkage; address of this variable cannot be taken

### Storage duration
Every **object** has a property called **storage duration**, which limits the
object *lifetime*.

- **automatic** storage duration. The storage is allocated when the block in
which the object was declared is entered and deallocated when it is exited by
any means (goto, return, reaching the end).
- **static** storage duration. The storage duration is the entire execution of
the program, and the value stored in the object is initialized only once, prior
to *main function*. All objects declared **static** and all objects with either
*internal* or *external* linkage that aren't declared **_Thread_local**
(since c11) have this storage duration.
- **allocated** storage duration. The storage is allocated and deallocated on
request, using *dynamic memory allocation* functions.
- **thread** sotorage duration.


### Linkage
Linkage refers to the ability of an identifier (variable or function) to be
referred to in other scopes.

- **no linkage** The identifier can be referred to only from the scope it is in.
All *function parameters* and all *non-extern block-scope variables* (including
the ones declared **static**) have this linkage.
- **internal linkage** The identifier can be referred to from all scopes in the
current translation unit. All **static** file-scope identifiers (both functions
and variables) have this linkage.
- **extern linkage** The identifier can be referred to from any other
translation units in the entire program. All *non-static* functions, all
**extern** variables (unless earlier declared **static**), and all file-scope non-static variables have this linkage.

### Scope
Each identifier that appears in a C program is *visible* (that is, may be used)
only in some possibly discontiguous portion of the source code called its
**scope**.

- **block scope**
- **file scope** The scope of any identifier declared outside of any block or
parameter list begins at the point of declaration and ends at the end of the
translation unit. File-scope identifiers have *external linkage* and *static
storage duration* by default.
- **function scope** A **label** (and only a label) declared inside a function
is in scope everywhere in that function, in all nested blocks, before and after
its own declaration. 
- **function prototype scope** The scope of name introduced in the parameter
list of a function declaration that is not a definition ends at the end of the 
function declarator.
